[Music]
alright here's one for you if you see a
service dog approaching you without its
owner don't ignore it so what would you
do if a dog wearing some sort of vest
randomly approached you without an owner
inside a well duh
pat it give it tricks belly rubs tell
him he's a good boy
compliment his cute little vest the
whole nine yards be call animal control
dog just can't be roaming around without
an owner sorry but the laws the law or
see just ignore it now my problem or
concern well if you chose any of those
options and I think today's video will
certainly teach you a thing or two when
it comes to service dogs these sorts of
dogs are totally misunderstood and
underestimated no they're not just pets
for disabled people they don't want your
belly rubs or treats and you absolutely
should not ignore one if one approaches
you without its owner around now let's
see what you really should do in this
situation but first don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and give that
notification Bella rang so you'll always
be the first to see all our daily
updates first things first you should
probably learn what a service dog
actually is so you'll know when one's
approaching you differentiating a
service dog from a pet can be
surprisingly difficult because get ready
for this not all of them wear vests the
Americans with Disabilities Act or a DA
puts it like this a service dog is any
dog that is individually trained to do
work or perform tasks for the benefit of
an individual with a disability let's
break that down shall we
any dog means it can be any breed of dog
individually trained to do work means
that not all service dogs are the same
they're trained to do specific tasks
depending on their particular job or
function and they come in lots of
different types there are service dogs
for visual medical and seizure
assistance as well as hearing dogs and
diabetic alert dogs just to name a few
for the benefit of an individual with a
disability means the handler or the
owner must have a physical or mental
impairment to legally have one oh and
one last thing a service animal can be a
pig bird or even a horse all right now
what if a service dog approaches you
without its owner again it's not asking
for treats belly rubs or baby talk and
it's not just some stray that needs to
be reported to Animal Control this
special dog wants your undivided
attention because its handler needs help
it might be an emergency situation in
which its owner needs human assistance
that the dog can't provide normally a
service dog and its owner are an
inseparable team you can't have one
without the other
but some service dogs are trained to go
get help once their owner is in grave
danger this is what happened to an
epileptic woman named Tessa who shared
her unfortunate story on tumblr she
wrote about how one day she tripped and
fell and her service dog mistook this
fall for an epileptic seizure the dog
doing what it was trained to do
immediately went for help it approached
a nearby woman who was just utterly
annoyed by the dog and even shoot it
away
Tessa felt the need to share her story
to inform the uninformed on what a
serious situation this is and what we
should do if it ever happens to us just
take it from her if a service dog
without a person approaches you it means
the person is down and in need of help
Good Samaritan Melissa hope read Tessa's
post on tumblr and decided to spread the
word on Twitter in a post called
service dog PSA that ended up going
viral so that just goes to show you we
can all do our part in getting extremely
important messages like this out
but what if a service dog is with its
owner are the rules a little more
relaxed nope not at all
that dog is still on the job and by no
means should you approach touch or
distract it yeah I know they're
irresistible cute even if they're just
quietly sitting next to their owner dogs
are certified attention magnets there's
just something about those big puppy
eyes that hypnotize you into reaching
out your hand and giving that pooch a
good scratch behind the ears
but you must resist that temptation hey
it's not me spoiling all the fun here
the law mandates that you never ever
interact with a service dog while
they're with their owners like I said
these dogs have a job to do they're on
the clock they don't need you disturbing
them during working hours and the law
totally agrees so that means don't pet
them don't feed them don't talk to them
make cooing sounds or ask them to do
tricks don't pat your thighs whistle or
clap your hands to get their attention
don't stare at them don't make eye
contact with them don't take selfies or
pictures with them don't get in their
way give the animal space so it can do
its job right don't bark at them come on
now admit it you do this with your own
pets especially when no one's looking
speaking of which if you have a pet with
you don't let them interact with each
other the service dog must stay alert
and focused at all times to attend to
their handlers needs any form of
distraction puts their owners well-being
at stake which is why the law is so
strict when it comes to service dogs if
you really just can't resist the urge to
pet a service animal
ask the owner first and respect whatever
answer they give you
you should also let the service dog
perform its job alone this means that
you must not approach or attempt to help
even if you see a dog pulling a
wheelchair or giving its owner medicine
I know it's a gut reaction to rush over
and offer a helping hand to someone in
need but if they've got a service dog
with them you've got to let them be this
dog has been very well trained since the
tender age of six months to do this job
so don't worry
this animal is literally an expert when
it comes to serving its owner and
responding to their needs besides your
impulsive action may cause anxiety in
the animal or in its owner remember that
some disabilities are psychological in
nature plus if a service dog needs human
assistance it'll come to you so what
about talking to service dog handlers
well the short answer to that is treat
the owner the same way you treat anyone
else yes they have a service dog yes it
means they have a disability
but that doesn't mean they're not a
human being that deserves common
courtesy that basically means respect
their privacy just put yourself in their
shoes for a second how would you feel if
some complete stranger was asking you
questions about your personal medical
history or condition you'd probably feel
uncomfortable and a bit irritated
because it's clearly not anyone's
business talk to them like any other
individual and don't violate their
privacy especially when it comes to the
details of their disability and their
service dog plus it's considered illegal
under federal law now that we've covered
all the rules regarding your behavior
around a service dog whether it alone
approaches you or with its owner let's
talk about where you might come across
this situation so basically we're our
service dogs allowed remember that the
service dog and its owner are an
inseparable team protected by the
Americans with Disabilities Act
this federal law states that service
animals are allowed in places that the
general public uses as long as they're
accompanied by their handler these
places include parks restaurants shops
and even public transportation you know
the hole can't have one without the
other thing we touched on earlier of
course public places that are more often
than not filled with people can be
overwhelming for service animals despite
its rigorous training its surroundings
can crack a service dogs cool calm and
collected demeanor if a service dog is
perhaps being naughty or too playful
just tell the owner and they'll correct
the animal's behavior federal law
mandates that is the handlers
responsibility alone to keep their
animal in check not yours
yes a service animal can be denied
access to a facility if its behavior
causes a public disturbance as for
public transport a service dog can stand
beside its owner or sit on their lap
unless it's a big animal of course in
that case it can sit beside them it's
also against the law to charge an animal
a fee to use public transit service
animals are allowed in schools hotels
and airlines as well these types of
places usually have strict rules
concerning pets but you know by now that
service animals are not pets and their
handler requires their presence at all
times service dogs are totally exempt
from breed bans in certain cities or
municipalities and just like with public
transportation it is a federal crime to
charge extra for a service dog to be
granted access to a hotel or airplane
however they're not allowed to be left
in a hotel room alone which makes total
sense and according to the air carrier
Access Act airlines also have to permit
access to a service animal but not if
it's too large or heavy to be
accommodated prohibited to enter another
country or can pose danger to other
individuals as for schools a service
animal can accompany its handler but not
in areas reserved for those who are
two dogs so let's say you're a business
owner or perhaps you're just downright
curious is it okay to ask someone for
some legal documentation proving that
their service dog is legit well the
short answer is no it's not under
federal law this is not allowed and the
owner is not obligated to do so
the only exception here is for airlines
which can ask for legal documentation or
a medical certificate indicating the
owner really needs a service dog but in
general the a DEA does not require
service animals to wear a vest ID tag or
specific collar and it doesn't require
any documentation to certify the dog as
a service animal however according to
the a DA's website you may politely ask
a handler these two questions and
nothing else is the dog a service animal
required because of a disability what
work or task has the dog been trained to
perform that's it only those two no
follow-up questions please and thank you
now hopefully this video has shed some
light on how truly important these dogs
are and what you can and cannot do when
it comes to service dog etiquette and
well the federal law please share this
video with everyone you know so we can
get the message out there and if you've
learned anything new today go ahead and
give this video a like and let us know
down in the comments what brands making
new knowledge you've gained for more
enlightening and informative videos like
this subscribe and join us on the bright
side of life